PT-4
Error-based SQL injection 

Error-based SQL injection refers to cases where you're able to use error messages to either extract or infer sensitive
data from the database, even in blind contexts. The possibilities depend on the configuration of the database and the
types of error's you're able to trigger:

- You may be able to include the application to return a specific error response based on the result of a boolean expression.
You can exploit this in the same way as the conditional responses we looked at in the previous section. For more 
information, see Exploting blind SQL injection by triggering conditional errors.
- You may be able to trigger error messages that output the data returned by the query. This effectively turns otherwise
blind SQL injection vulnerabilities into visible ones. For more information, see Extracting sensitive data via verbose 
SQL error messages.

Exploting blind SQL injection by triggering conditional errors

some applications carry out SQL queries but their behaviour doesn't change, regardless of whether the query returns any
data. The technique in the previous section won't work, because injecting different boolean conditions makes no
difference to the application's responses.

It's often possible to induce the application to return a different response depending on whether  a SQL error occurs.
You can modify the query so that it causes a database error only if the condition is true. Bery often, an unhundled 
error thrown by the database causes some difference in the application's response, such as an error message. This 
enables you to infer the truth of the injected condition.

Exploting blind SQL injection by triggering conditional errors - Continued

To see how this works, suppose that two requests are sent containing the following TrackingId cookie values in turen:
xyz' AND (SELECT CASE WHEN (1=2) THEN 1/0 ELSE 'a' END)='a
xyz' AND (SELECT CASE WHEN (1=1) THEN 1/0 ELSE 'a' END)='a

These inputs use the CASE keyword to test a condition and return a condition and return a different expression
depending on whether the expression is true:

- With the first input, the CASE expression evaluates to 'a', which does not cause any error.
- With the second input, it ecaluates to 1/0, which causes a divide-by-zero error.

if the error causes a difference in the application's HTPPS response, you can use this to determine whether the injected
condition is true.

Using this technique, you can retrieve data by testing one character at a time:
xyz' AND (SELECT CASE WHEN (Username = 'Administrator' AND SUBSTRING(Password, 1, 1) > 'm') THEN 1/0 ELSE 'a' END FROM Users)='a
