PT-5

Extracting sensitive data via verbose SQL error messages

Microconfiguration of the database sometimes results in verbose error messages. These can provide information
that may be useful to an attacker. For example, consider the following error message, which occurs after injecting a single
quote into an id parameter:
SELECT
Interminated string literal started at position 52 in SQL SELECT * FROM tracking WHERE id='''.Expected char

This shows the full query that the application constructed using our input. We can see that in this case, we're injecting
into a single-quoted string inside a WHERE statment. This makes it easier to contruct a valid query containing a malicious
payload. Commenting out the rest of the query would prevent the superfluous single-quotte from breaking the syntax.


Extracting sensitive data via verbose SQL error messages - Contiuned

Occasionally, you may be able to induce the application to generate an error message that contains some of the data that 
is returned by the query. This effectively turns an otherwise blind SQL injection vulnerability into a visible one.

You can use the CAST() function to achieve this. It enables you to convert one data type to another. For example, imagine
a query containing the following statement:
CAST((SELECT example_column FROM example_table) AS int)

Often, the data that you're trying to read is a string. Attempting to convert this to an incompatible data type, such as 
an int, may cause an error similar to the following:

ERROR: invalid input syntax for type integer: "Example data"

This type of query may also be useful if a character limit prevents you from triggering conditional responses.

Exploiting blind SQL injection by trigerring time delays

If the application catches database errors when the SQL query is executed and handles them gracefully, there won't be any
difference in the application's response. This means the previous technique for inducing conditional errors will not work.

In this situation, it is often possible to exploit the blind SQL injection vulnerability by triggering time delays 
depending on whether an injected condition is true or false. As SQL queries are normally  processed synchronously by the
application, delaying the executoion of a SQL  query also delays the HTTP rresponse. This allows you to determine
the truth of the injected condition based on the time taken truth of the injected condition based on the time taken
to receive the HTTP response.

Exploiting blind SQL injection by triggering time delays - Contiuned

The techniques for triggering a time delay are specific to the type of database being used. For example, on Microsoft SQL
Server, you can use the following to test a condition and trigger a delay depending on whether the expression is true:
'; IF (1=2) WAITFOR DELAY '0:0:10'--
'; IF (1=1) WAITFOR DELAY '0:0:10'--

- The first of these inputs does not trigger a delay, because the condition 1=2 is false.
- The second input triggers a delay of 10 seconds, because the condition 1=1 is true.

Using this technique, we can retrieve data by testing one character at a time:
'; IF (SELECT COUNT(Username) FROM Users WHERE Username = 'Administrator' AND SUBSTRING(Password, 1, 1) > 'm') = 1 WAITFOR DELAY '0:0:{delay}'--

Note
There are various ways to trigger time delays withi SQL queries, and different techniques apply on different types of database.
For more details, see the SQL injection cheat sheet.

Exploiting blind SQL injection using out-of-band (OAST) techniques

An application  might carry out the same SQL query as the previous example but do it asynchronously. The application continues 
processing the user's request in the original thread, and uses the tracking cookie. The query is still vulnerable to SQL
injection, but none of the techniques described so far will work. The application's response doesn't depend on the query
returning any data, a database error occurring, or om yje time taken to execute the query.

In this situation, it is often possible to exploit the blind SQL injection vulnerability by triggerring out-of-band network
interactions to a system that you control. These can be triggered based on an injected condition to infer information
one piece at a time. More usefully, data can be exfiltrated directly within the network interaction.

A variety of network protocols can be used for this purpose, but typically the most effective is DNS (domain name service).
Many production networks allow free egress of DNS queries, because they're essential for the normal operation of production
systems.

Exploting blind SQl injection using out-of-band (OAST) techniques-Continued

The easiest and most reliable tool for using out-of-band techniques is Burp Collaborator.
