XXE_injection_1

XML external entity (XXE) injection

In this section, we'll explain what XML external entity inkection is, describe some common examples, explain how to find 
and exploit various kinds of XXE injection, and summarize how to prevent XXE injection attacks.

What is XML external entity injection?
XML external entity injection (also known as XXE) is a web security vulnerability that allows an attacker to interfere with
an application's processing of XML data. It often allows an attacker to view files on the application server filesystem,
and to interact with any back-end or external systems that the application itself can access.

In some situations, an attacker can ascalate an XXE attack to compromise the underlying server or other back-end infrastructure
by leveraging the XXE vulnerability to perform server-side request forgery (SSRF) attacks.


Labs 
if you're already familiar with the basic concepts behind XXE vulnerabilities and just want to practice exploting them
on some realistic, deliberately vulnerable targets, you can access all of the labs in this topic from the link below.

How do XXE vulnerabilities arise?
Some applications use the XML format to transmit data between the browser and the server. Applications that do this 
virtually always use a  standard library or platform API to process the XML data on the server. XXE vulnerabilities arise
because the XML specification contains various potentially dangerous used by the application.

XML external entities are a type of custom XML entity whose defined values are loaded from ouside of the DTD in which they are declared.
External entities are particularly interesting from a security perspective because they allow an entity to be defined based
on the contents of a file path or URL.

What are the types of XXE attacks?

There are various types of XXE attacks:
- Exploting XXE to retrieve files, where an external entity is defined containing the contents of a file, and returned 
in the application's response.
- Exploiting XXE to perform SSRF attacks, where an external entity is defined based on a URL to a back-end system
- Exploting blind XXE exfiltrate data out-of-band, where sensitive data is transmitted from the application server to a system
that the attacker controls.
- Exploting blind XXE to retrieve data via error messages, where the attackercan trigger a parsing error message
containing sensitive data.

Exploting XXE to retrieve files
To perform an XXE injection attack that retrieves an arbitrary file from the server's filesystem, you need to modify
the submitted XML in two ways:
- Introduce (or edit) a DOCTYPE element that defines an external entity containing the path to the file.
- Edit a data value in the XML that is returned in the applications's response, to make use of the defined external entity.

For example, suppose a shopping aplpication checks for the stock level of a product by submitting the following XML to the
server:
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<stockCheck><productId>381</productId></stockCheck>

The application performs no particular defenses against XXE attacks, so you can explit the XXE vulnerability to retrieve
the /etc/passwd file by submitting the folowing XXE payload:
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE foo [ <!ENTITY xxe SYSTEM "file:///etc/passwd"> ]>
<stockCheck><productId>&xxe;</productId></stockCheck>

This XXE payload defines an external entity &xxe; whose value is the contents of the /etc/passwd file and uses the entity 
within the productId value. This causes the application's response to include the contents of the file:
Invalid product ID: root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
daemon:x:1:1:daemon:/usr/sbin:/usr/sbin/nologin
bin:x:2:2:bin:/bin:/usr/sbin/nologin
...

Note
With real-world XXE vulnerabilities, there will often be a large number of data values within the submitted XML, any
one of which might be used within the application's response. To test systematically for XXE vulnerabilities, you will
generally need to test each data node in the XML individually, by making use of defined entity and seeing whether it
appears within the responses.

Exploiting XXE to perform SSRF attacks
Aside from retrieval of sensitive data, the other main impact of XXE attacks is that can be used to perform server-side request 
forgery (SSRF). This is a potentially serious vulnerability in which the server-side application can be induced to make
HTTP requests to any URL that the server can access.

To exploit an XXE vulnerability to perform an SSRF attack, you need to define an external XML entity using the URL that  you 
want to target, and use the defined entity within a data value. If you can use the defined entity within a data value that
is returned in the application's response, and so gain two way interaction with the back-end system. If not, then you will only 
be able to perform blind SSRF attacks (which can still have critical consequences).

In theollowing XXE example, the external entity will cause the server to make a back-end HTTP request to an internal system 
within the organization's infrastructure:
<!DOCTYPE foo [ <!ENTITY xxe SYSTEM "http://internal.vulnerable-website.com/"> ]>

Blind XXE vulnerabilities
Many instances of XXE vulnerabilities are blind. This means that the application does not returned the value of any defined 
external entities in its responses, and so direct retrieval of server-side is not possible.

Blind XXE vulnerabilities can still be detected and exploited, but more advanced techniques are required. You can sometimes
use out-of-band techniques to find vulnerabilities and exploit them to exfiltrate data. And you can sometimes trigger XML
parsing errors that lead to disclosure of sensitive data within error messages.

Finding hidden attack surface for XXE injection
Attack surface for XXE injection  vulnerabilities is obvious in many cases, because the application's normal HTTP traffic
includes requests that contain data in XML format. In other cases, the attack surface is less visible. However, if you
look in the right pieces, you will find XXE attack surface in requests that do not contain any XML.

Xinclude attacks

Some applications receive client-submitted data, embed it on the server-side into an XML document, and then parse the document.
An example of this occurs when client-submitted data is placed into a back-end SOAP request, which is then processed by the
backend SOAP service.

In this situation, you cannot carry out a classic XXE attack, because you don't control the entire XML document and so cannot
define or modify a DOCTYPE element. However, you might be able to use XIclude instead. XInclude is a part of the XML specification
that allows an XML document to be built from sub-documents. You can place ac XInclude attack within any data value in an XML
document, so the attack can be performed in situations where you only control a single item of data that is placed into a server-
side XML document.

To perform an XInclude attack, you need to reference the XInclude namespace and provide the path to the file that you wish
to include. For example:
<foo xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
<xi:include parse="text" href="file:///etc/passwd"/></foo>

XXE attacks via file upload
Some applications allow users to upload files which are then processed server-side. Some common file formats use XML
or contain XML subcomponents. Examples of XML-based formats are office document formats like DOCX and image formats like SVG.

For example, an application might allow users to upload images, and process or validate these on the server after thay are uploaded.
Even if the application expects to receive a format ;ike PNG or JPG, the image processing library that is being used might
support SVG images. Since the SVG format uses XML, an attacker can submit a malicious SVG image and so reach hidden attack
surface for XXE vulnerabilities.

XXE attacks via modified content type
Most POST requests use a default content type that is generated by HTML forms, such as application/x-www-fomr-urlencoded.
Some web sites expect to receive requests in this format but will tolerate other content types,  including XML:

For example, if a normal request contains the following:
POST /action HTTP/1.0
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 7

foo=bar

Then you might be able submit the folowwing request, with the same result:

POST /action HTTP/1.0
Content-Type: text/xml
Content-Length: 52

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><foo>bar</foo>

If the application tolerates requests containing XML in the message body, and parses the body content as XML, then you 
can reach the hidden XXE attack surface simply by reformatting requests to use the XML format.

How to find and test for XXE vulnerabilities

The vast majority of XXE vulnerabilities can be found quickly and reliably using Burp Suite's web vulneability scanner,

Manually texting for XXE vulnerabilities generally involves:
- Testing for file retrieval by defining an external entity based on a well-known operating system file and using that 
entity in data that is returned in the application's response.
- Testing for blind XXE vulnerabilities by defining an external entity based on a well-known operating system file and using 
that entity in data that is returned in the application's response.
- Testing for blind XXE vulnerabilities by defining an external entity based on a URL to a system that you control, and 
monitoring for interactions with that system. Burp Collaborator is perfect for this purpose.
- Testing for vulnerable inclusion of user-supplied non-XML data within a server-side XML document by using  an XIclude 
attack to try to retrieve a well-known operating system file.

Note 
Keep in mind that XML is just a data transfer format. Make sure you also test any XML-based functionality for other 
vulnerabilities like XSS and SQL Injection. You may need to encode your payload using XML escape sequences to avoid 
breaking the syntax, but you may also be able to use this to obduscate your attack in order to bypass weak defences.

How to prevent XXEE vulnerabilities
Virtually all XEE vulnerablities arise because the application's XML parsing library supports potentially dangerous 
XML feautures thath the application does not need or intend to use. The easiest and most effective way to prevent XXE
attacks is to disable those features.

Generally, it is sufficient to disable resolution of external entities and disable suppport for XIclude. This can usually
be done via configuration options or by programmatically overridding default behaviour. Consult the documentation for your
XML parsing library or API for 

